Next we will talk about Spark streaming.
After this video you will be able to
summarize how Spark reads streaming data,
list several sources of streaming
data supported by Spark, and
describe Spark's sliding windows.
Spark streaming provides
scalable processing for
real-time data and
runs on top of Spark Core.
Continuous data streams are converted or
grouped into discrete RDDs which
can then be processed in parallel.
Spark Streaming provides APIs for Scala,
Java, and Python,
like other Spark products.
Spark Streaming can read
data from many different
types of resources,
including Kafka and Flume.
Kafka is a high throughput published
subscribed messaging system,
and Flume collects and
aggregates log data.
Spark Streaming can also read from batch
input data sources, such as HDFS,
S3, and many other non SQL databases.
Additionally, Spark Streaming can read
directly from Twitter, raw TCP sockets,
and many other data sources that
are real-time data providers.
So how does it all work?
Here we show you a flow of
transformations and actions
which you will try in the upcoming reading
and hands-on exercises on Spark Streaming.
Spark streaming reads
streaming data and
converts it into micro batches
which we call DStreams which is short for
discretized stream.
In this example a 10 second
stream gets converted
into five RDDs using a batch
length of 2 seconds.
Similar to other RDDs,
transformations such as map, reduce,
and filter can be applied to DStreams.
DStreams can be aggregated
into Windows allowing you to apply
computations on sliding window of data.
In this example the Window
size is 4 seconds and
the sliding interval is 2 seconds.
In summary, Spark Streaming is
Spark's library to work with
streaming data in near real time.
DStreams can be used just
like any other RDD and
can go through the same
transformation as batch datasets.
DStreams can create a sliding window to
perform calculations on a window of time.